[Music]
as long as people have existed we have
always needed medical support and even
though there is no doubt that medicine
has helped a lot to prolong the average
lifespan at certain points of its
development the methods were quite
strange some of them were even very
dangerous hear the words no pain no gain
can be used quite literally we're going
to tell you about 13 ancient treatment
methods that will make you happy that
you live in the 21st century counting
down from number 13 malaria for treating
syphilis so in the 1920s a doctor
discovered that patients that previously
had syphilis didn't have it after they
showed symptoms of malaria as this
doctor discovered later malaria causes
fever high enough to kill the syphilitic
bacteria thankfully today malaria is not
among the treating options number 12
treating cough with heroin everybody
knows that drugs are bad and destructive
but heroin actually helps with a cloth
however you'll get addicted to it much
faster than you treat your cloth the
worst thing is that doctors thought that
it was non-addictive unlike morphine
whoops
number 11 you're in therapy the funniest
thing about urine therapy is that today
some people still believe that it works
even though there is absolutely no proof
people drink and bathe and urine it
wouldn't be that disgusting if it were
effective in some way but in fact urine
therapy cures nothing and even the thing
with peeing on the skin that was stung
by a jellyfish is not true also let's
remember not to eat yellow snow no
benefit here either number 10 a
toothache was treated with smoking goat
fat and his name was Billy billy goat
even though none of us got to experience
this kind of treatment we're pretty sure
that it was just as gross as it sounds
or works
Avicenna recommended smoking patients
with a hot mixture of goat fat Han vein
and onion as a way of dental treatment
we're not sure how this was supposed to
help another curious way of treating
toothache was proposed by plenty the
elder he believed that the only way to
get rid of a toothache
was catching a toad at midnight
splitting its mouth and saying some
special cheering words we wonder if he
ever tried it by himself and here is
something that people used and it
actually helped a special kind of spider
was used to kill a toothache they were
caught and made into a paste that the
patient had to put on a bad tooth bill
this helped with the pain
because the spiders had some poison that
wasn't strong enough to kill the patient
but it could relieve the pain well next
time you hear someone whining about
visiting the dentist tell them these
stories or even better share this video
with them number 9
mothers delivered babies standing or
sitting on their haunches in ancient
India they knew how to change the
position of the fetus in utero and in
some African tribes healers were able to
perform a caesarean section with their
primitive instruments and they probably
never heard of Caesar however in the
medieval period the biggest part of
ancient knowledge was lost
midwifery in that period was very
underdeveloped with many crucial
mistakes when delivering babies it led
to many victims both among women and
their newborns during the delivery
number 8 juniper and Mandrake extracts
were used as anesthesia in ancient Egypt
they use extracts from Mandrake fruits
as anesthesia for surgeries in India and
China juniper cannabis and aconite were
used for the same purpose
it's hard to say now if they were really
effective but most likely the patients
could still feel really bad pain
however in ancient Mesopotamia doctors
knew that they could use alcohol and
opium to help their patients feel no
pain yes
time travel is fun and all but we
wouldn't wish to stay in that time like
this video if you agree with us
number seven chronic diseases were
treated with physical exercise and holy
water in the times of Hippocrates for 62
370 BC some people thought that
epileptic seizures were cases of demonic
possession so they were treated with
prayers in holy water you can imagine
how much it helped ancient doctors
treated diabetes with physical exercises
and healing herbs not to be confused
with healing herb the doctor over there
on the corner but this didn't bring any
positive results and the patients
usually died chronic skin diseases like
psoriasis were considered incurable the
patient had to wear a bell as a warning
to other people to stay away number six
almost all diseases were treated with
bloodletting in the past many people
thought that most diseases were caused
by what they called bad blood
so bloodletting seemed to be an obvious
solution for example doctors thought
that people who had a fever simply had
too much blood so they cut a vein open
and let some blood pour out even barbers
offered bloodletting as an extra service
so we want to take a little off the top
huh hey while you're in the chair we got
a special today on bloodletting yeah as
you probably know leeches were and even
are still used today to cure some rare
diseases thankfully later doctors learn
that bloodletting is not only useless
but it can also be harmful sometimes
doctors couldn't stop the bleeding and
patients simply died
their blood was infected because of
unsterile conditions as we know today
there is no evidence to support the idea
that bloodletting is in any way good for
the health number five
snake venom and poisonous herbs not to
be confused with poisonous herb the
assassin over there on the corner before
antibiotics people tried to fight
infections with remedies based on plant
poisons and viper venom modern
scientists came to the conclusion that
the reason why our ancestors thought
that snake venom could in some way help
kill infections or small proteins called
disintegrates
however it's like fighting fire with
fire maybe it is helpful but why fight
an infection that your body might kill
itself if the risk to kill you with
snake poison is so high number four
mercury you know when it comes to things
like snake venom bloodletting and
finally mercury used in medicine we
start thinking that goat fat wasn't that
bad at all
as we know today mercury is extremely
toxic however for some reason ancient
alchemists thought that it was a cure
that could prolong the life span of
patients some people even thought that
mercury would give them eternal life
ironically it made their lives way
shorter than they could have been it
caused their liver and kidneys to shut
down number three Skull trepanation like
I need another hole in the head
[Music]
headaches epilepsy and other
psychological disorders used to be cured
by drastic measures
doctors drilled holes in their patient's
skulls trepanation is actually one of
the oldest surgical operations the proof
was found in human remnants from the
Neolithic Age can you imagine how
complicated such surgeries must be if
they're still considered very dangerous
even though humanity has been practicing
them for so long
this method was very popular in the
ancient American civilizations as well
as during the Renaissance era number two
tobacco smoke enema digestion problems
somnolence stomach cramps hmm you need a
tobacco smoke enema actually not this
method was first used by North American
Indians and later adopted by many other
doctors however in the 19th century they
discovered that tobacco contains
poisonous nicotine aha and these enemas
haven't been used since but what an
interesting way to blow smoke rings huh
and number 1 cannibal cures yes a cure
for what's eating you if you lived in
the 12th century your doctor could
prescribe you a potion made of human
flesh bones and blood boy this mixture
was thought to be good for headaches and
stomach ulcers doctors thought that
cannibal cures had some kind of magical
powers if a patient ate parts of a dead
person he also absorbed a part of the
person's spirit the scariest part about
all this was getting the ingredients for
the mixtures do you know about any other
dangerous or painful medical treatments
don't hesitate to tell us in the comment
section below like this video if you
enjoyed it and share it with your
friends and of course watch out for
hazardous herb and don't forget to hit
the subscribe button to join us on the
bright side of life
[Music]